---
title: "- MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13"
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/archive/moinmoin_wiki/kernelwiki/pages/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13.html"
---

**2012-01-05. Frozen archive - links may not resolve - see directory of files at [MoinMoin wiki archive](/moinmoin-wiki-archive/)**

# > [MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=fullsearch&value=MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13&literal=1&case=1&context=40 "Click here to do a full-text search for this title")

User

 [UserPreferences](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/UserPreferences)
  

Site

- [FrontPage](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/FrontPage)
- [RecentChanges](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/RecentChanges)
- [FindPage](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/FindPage)
- [HelpContents](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/HelpContents)

Page

- [Edit](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=edit "Edit")
- [View](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13 "View")
- [Diffs](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=diff "Diffs")
- [Info](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=info "Info")
- [Subscribe](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=subscribe "Subscribe")
- [Raw](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=raw "Raw")
- [Print](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=print "Print")

Actions

- [AttachFile](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=AttachFile)
- [DSP2XML](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=DSP2XML)
- [DeletePage](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=DeletePage)
- [LikePages](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=LikePages)
- [LocalSiteMap](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=LocalSiteMap)
- [SpellCheck](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=SpellCheck)

Search

<form method="POST" action="/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13">
<p>
<input name="action" value="inlinesearch" type="hidden">
<input name="context" value="40" type="hidden">
Title: <input name="text_title" size="15" maxlength="50" type="text"><input src="MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13_files/moin-search.png" name="button_title" alt="[?]" type="image"><br>Text: <input name="text_full" size="15" maxlength="50" type="text"><input src="MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13_files/moin-search.png" name="button_full" alt="[?]" type="image">
</p>
</form>

#### KAP Task Group conference call 13 May 2010

Background:

Deferred patches to the ERC spec, which you'll find at

 [http://jak-desktop.ad.ucop.edu/specs/ercspec.html](http://jak-desktop.ad.ucop.edu/specs/ercspec.html)

with the differences noted here (not quite as pretty as tracked changes)

 [http://jak-desktop.ad.ucop.edu/specs/erc-old-02-diffs.html](http://jak-desktop.ad.ucop.edu/specs/erc-old-02-diffs.html)

The major differences are (a) an added "depositor-erc" story (Charles convincing us of its falue) and (b) language adjustments around the anchoring story to be a "lay" version of metadata that serves the joint management goals of a collection by an administrator and a depositor (who we at CDL cannot assume to have knowledge of FRBR or bibliographic description, or be trainable in those areas). It was awkward to avoid the word "expression" (to avoid conflict with FRBR jargon).

Also added was the "(=)" separator we talked about last year and hinted at a "huh" element (for the language and charset encoding of the metadata record), both of which we're beginning to use in my group at CDL, see for example, [http://www.cdlib.org/uc3/naan\_registry.txt](http://www.cdlib.org/uc3/naan_registry.txt) .

Notes:

CB: depositors needn't know ANVL, but might copy/paste; should be able to "clone" records

JK: will send ezid mockup to group

AT: to craft intro text for tools links

JK: will contact Seth and Thomas (Tools leads) about listing from tools page

CB to look depositor-er in comparison to EAC (? and others)

TB: encourages announcements on Twitter and DC General

- next call June 17

#### Attending:

 Charles Blair, Jane Huang, Bill Moen, Adrian Turner, Tom Baker, John Kunze 

 [RefreshCache](http://dublincore.org/kernelwiki/MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13?action=refresh&arena=Page.py&key=MeetingAgendaAndNotesMay13.text_html) for this page (cached 2012-12-31 18:43:18)  

Immutable page (last edited 2010-05-13 16:13:13 by JohnKunze)

