---
title: minutes20140722
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/minutes20140722.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 24 July 2014, at 03:27.  
This page has been accessed 31,707 times.

[<img alt="RDF AP TG logo" src="/mediawiki_wiki/images/RdfAP_tg.png" width="200" height="141">](/mediawiki_wiki/images/RdfAP_tg.png)

* * *

##### [Handbook](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook): [Table of Contents](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/) 
<dl>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board.md" title="DCMI Governing Board">Governing Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/finance.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/finance">Membership &amp; Finance</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/nominations.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/nominations">Nominations &amp; Bylaws</a> 
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board.md" title="DCMI Technical Board">Technical Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/usage.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/usage">Usage</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/standards.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/standards">Standards &amp; Liaisons</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/specifications.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/specifications">Community Specifications</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board">Advisory Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/meetings.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/meetings">Conferences &amp; Meetings</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/documentation.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/documentation">Education &amp; Outreach</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i>Management:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee.md" title="Exec Committee">Executive</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/directorate.md" title="Exec Committee/directorate">Directorate</a>
</dd>
</dl>

* * *

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1"><a href="#Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Handbook: Table of Contents</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#1._Gathering_requirements:_cases_DDB.2FDM2E.2FEuropeana"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">1. Gathering requirements: cases DDB/DM2E/Europeana</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#2._Coordination_with_W3C_RDF_Data_shapes_WG_.5Brunning_item_-_keep_in_agenda.5D"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">2. Coordination with W3C RDF Data shapes WG [running item - keep in agenda]</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#3._Tutorials_for_various_meetings.2C_especially_DC2014"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">3. Tutorials for various meetings, especially DC2014</span></a></li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


DCMI RDF AP Task Group

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles)

Meeting date: July 22, 2014

SEE CORRECTION: Meeting link: [https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=MB17B12CLD71O1DHBFVA872G5V-JV0D](https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=MB17B12CLD71O1DHBFVA872G5V-JV0D)

CORRECTED MEETING LINK: [https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M19CHP0PQNARVG6UHZ7786R7H6-JV0D&rnd=613538.26021](https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M19CHP0PQNARVG6UHZ7786R7H6-JV0D&rnd=613538.26021)

Meeting Number:198 177 794

_Attendees_: Karen, Antoine, Evelyn, Diane, Jeff, Mariana, Laura, Shlomo, Stefanie, Stuart, Thomas, Valentine Corey, Gordon, Mark, Adrian, Konstantin, Lars Regrets:

Agenda and notes:

[http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-22-07http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-22-07-2014-2014](http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-22-07http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-22-07-2014-2014)

## 1. Gathering requirements: cases DDB/DM2E/Europeana

requirements database: [http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation](http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation)

Report from the DDB/DM2E/Europeana cases and requirements.

These are the first cases being analyzed and added to the database; others will be addressed later.

Evelyn: We are using the rdf-validation database

[http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/)

Case studies that have been entered are at: [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies)And you can see a detailed view on case studies here: [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies/case-studies-detailed](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies/case-studies-detailed)

This work is being done based on an initial comparison done as a spreadsheet in Google Docs: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoN3jJ2PToabdFZDTzJmS2hNUHBMUTBHMzgzMmI5dEE&usp=drive\_web#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoN3jJ2PToabdFZDTzJmS2hNUHBMUTBHMzgzMmI5dEE&usp=drive_web#gid=0)

Evelyn: using the DB is helpful.

Valentine and Stefanie are currently also adding use cases for their case studies

Mark Matienzo will update DPLA case study/use cases

KCoyle: maybe we should also look at some DSP requirements?

AIsaac: the process is good as the use cases will help us identifying requirements for DSP

KC:Should we create use cases for Bibframe?

Lars: spoke to Reinhold - agree that should invite Kevin or Eric.

**ACTION ITEM** : to invite Kevin and/or Eric to provide a simple case study (+use cases). [DONE]

Stanford: Phil Schreur ( [http://www.loc.gov/bibframe/implementation/register.html](http://www.loc.gov/bibframe/implementation/register.html)) pschreur@stanford.edu

**ACTION ITEM** : Ask Phil for case study (overall) + different use cases within the case study

Timeline: We expect to have the first use case presentation by September.

So far everyone is comfortable continuing the discussion on the dc-architecture mailing list, rather than creating a separate list for this purpose.

## 2. Coordination with W3C RDF Data shapes WG [running item - keep in agenda]

prospective charter: [http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter](http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter)

discussion list: [http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/](http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/)

(From last meeting) ACTION: KC send more links to W3C list

principle (from Eric): not just to announce once that you're interested but instead send status reports and plans to keep folks aware of the energy behind our group.

Karen: we may have to talk about ways to extract information from our database so that it's easier to comprehend, especially when presenting it to others who have not been directly involved

Evelyn: we will have this when we do a first report about the cases

Karen: I see a need to synthesize and visualize the results (lists of the most common requirements, related requirements, etc.). Good presentation will make a difference

Thomas: I'm trying to collect requirements from the discussion on the mailing list.

Stefanie: Their draft charter indicates a start planned for September. the timing is good for us.

## 3. Tutorials for various meetings, especially DC2014

**DL14 Conference London (Sept) - tutorial will include APs in general**

outline is available at [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPu5ZvFlYkm-ops892AVRQXNxNw1ZFLEdSVlMzbknQU/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPu5ZvFlYkm-ops892AVRQXNxNw1ZFLEdSVlMzbknQU/edit)

**DC2014 Austin (October)**

- Thomas can give a general overview on validation (DSP, ShEx), helped by Kai and Stephanie
- maybe Tom and Karen can talk about DCAP
- Stefanie - explain use cases and requirements

Tutorial is scheduled for 1/2 day

Karen: Will be coordinator of the tutorial

Some content will pull from Valentine's slides when available.

**SWIB14 Bonn (Dec. 1-3)**

Speakers: Kai (leader), Stefanie, Antoine

