---
title: minutes20140930
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/minutes20140930.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 6 October 2014, at 18:26.  
This page has been accessed 30,031 times.

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#DCMI_RDF_AP_Task_Group"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">DCMI RDF AP Task Group</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2">
          <a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Tutorials"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Tutorials</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Gathering_requirements"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Gathering requirements</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#First_deliverable"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">First deliverable</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-6"><a href="#Scope_discussion:_relation_between_the_TG_work_and_previous_AP_work"><span class="tocnumber">2.4</span> <span class="toctext">Scope discussion: relation between the TG work and previous AP work</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-7"><a href="#Coordination_with_W3C_RDF_Data_shapes_WG_.5Brunning_item_-_nothing_for_this_week.2C_but_keep_in_agenda.5D"><span class="tocnumber">2.5</span> <span class="toctext">Coordination with W3C RDF Data shapes WG [running item - nothing for this week, but keep in agenda]</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-8"><a href="#AOB"><span class="tocnumber">2.6</span> <span class="toctext">AOB</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

# DCMI RDF AP Task Group

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles)

Meeting date: Sept 30, 2014

Meeting link: [https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M1JHK27CI0D4KXZYHIMMD3CA0F-JV0D](https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M1JHK27CI0D4KXZYHIMMD3CA0F-JV0D)

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles#Calls](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles#Calls)

**Attendees** : Adrian, Karen, Tom Baker (text only), , Antoine, Thomas, Evelyn, Stefanie, Eric

**Regrets** : Mark Matienzo, Tom Johnson, Corey, Mariana, Valentine

# Agenda

## Tutorials

**DC2014 Austin** (October), half day: Tom, Stefanie, Kai, Thomas, Karen (coordinating)

outline at: [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/dc2014](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/dc2014)

one of the goals is to get people up to speed for Special Session (facilitated by Mark M): [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/dc2014specialsession](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/dc2014specialsession) (agenda, discussion questions, etc.)

outline: [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/dc2014](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/dc2014)

Karen: added times. We need to begin to gather presentations, so if your presentation is available, or if there are other links (e.g. Thomas' validator demo) send me the links or add them to the outline.

Mark M (Not on 9/30 call): Please let me know via email (over DC-ARCHITECTURE is fine) if you have any questions regarding the special session.

Karen will print things.

We may put the break in the middle of the biggest part (validation).

People should leave room for discussion in their presentation.

Kai's questions:

**Q** : template needed?

Karen: I'd say no, I already have slides

**Q** : wish to introduce specific elements from other presentations?

Karen: nothing specific, he should feel free.

**Q** : meeting in advance of the tutorial

Karen: we might meet on Wednesday morning

**ACTION** - **DONE** : Karen to suggest time and place to meet on Wed morning.

DC2014: Can we find a time to talk about the validator in another session and contemplate 1) a tutorial 2) adding to test situations?

Karen: I would like to look with a group of people at the validator

Thomas: I will show the validator during my tutorial slot

I need internet connect

Karen: I'll ask ( **DONE** - Wifi and Ethernet in all meeting rooms)

Thomas: I also need it for the ShEx demo/validator

tomB: Thomas, Ericp is contributing to shed demo? - He wants to send me some slides and examples - I will present it there using the ShEx demo

**SWIB14 Bonn** (Dec): Kai Eckert, Valentine Charles (Lieke Ploeger, Evelyn Dr√∂ge, Dominique Ritze, Antoine Isaac)

TBD after DC tutorial

PM. Perhaps involving Thomas (for practical stuff w/ a validation tool), Stefanie is also there

## Gathering requirements

requirements database: [http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation](http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation)

Problem with repetition at

[http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=requirements/dc-requirements](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=requirements/dc-requirements)

**ACTION** : Thomas to check the bug.

**DONE** : [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1409&L=DC-ARCHITECTURE&F=&S=&P=16320](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1409&L=DC-ARCHITECTURE&F=&S=&P=16320)

Need to sort out terminology/understanding

continuing the discussion from last call

[http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-19-08-2014](http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-19-08-2014)

Checklist for requirements. examples (formalized if possible), defintion in natural language (avoiding abbrevations)

**ACTION** : Valentine and Stefanie to send a list of unclear requirements

**ONGOING** : this? [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1409&L=DC-ARCHITECTURE&F=&S=&P=23143](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1409&L=DC-ARCHITECTURE&F=&S=&P=23143)

Stefanie: hasn't had time to work on this. Move to next agenda. Will work on after Austin.

Valentine has linked some requirements to the EDM case.

Still need to make sure that wording of definitions is clear to anyone coming in.

**ACTION** : Antoine to send an email to the list suggesting to record example in constraint languages in the database.

**ACTION** : Antoine to do it for two easy examples and two hard ones, from Stefanie's list, and put it on the wiki.

**DONE** : [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1409&L=DC-ARCHITECTURE&F=&S=&P=18072](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1409&L=DC-ARCHITECTURE&F=&S=&P=18072)

Contribution from Thomas: [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1409&L=DC-ARCHITECTURE&F=&S=&P=22284](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1409&L=DC-ARCHITECTURE&F=&S=&P=22284)

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/ExamplesFormalConstraints](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/ExamplesFormalConstraints)

Sample constraints have been expressed as DSP and OWL2 (Antoine and Thomas)

compatible with the current validator so they can be tested

DSP has to be expressed as turtle, not XML

Karen: it could be the beginning of a test suite, very useful to a lot of people. Educationally.

Antoine: yes. Technically as well, in the W3C group on RDF validation for example

Antoine:&nbsp;? for Thomas - min/max occur question - are these mandatory? Thomas: perhaps there should be default values.

Antoine: can we get rid of constraints we are not interested in? if there are defaults, they are always there.

**ACTION** : Thomas - analyze default constraints on minimum and maximum

**DONE** by Karen: DSP defaults to min=0 max=infinity for all places where that is defined (place has been created for defaults to be listed in [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/)

Karen: this reminds me that DSP was never really tested.

There was a problem with the SWAP profile. URIs of properties couldn't be used as template identifiers more than one.

DSP is still beta, or even alpha.

We should be willing to modify DSP if we find problems.

Same wiki page now lists DSP problem areas [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/DSPanalysis](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/DSPanalysis)

Antoine: requirements 25 and 26 cannot be expressed in DSP

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/ExamplesFormalConstraints#R-25-OBJECT-PROPERTY-DOMAIN](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/ExamplesFormalConstraints#R-25-OBJECT-PROPERTY-DOMAIN)

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/ExamplesFormalConstraints#R-26-DATA-PROPERTY-DOMAIN](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/ExamplesFormalConstraints#R-26-DATA-PROPERTY-DOMAIN)

Thomas: I confirm that with the current semantics they can't be expressed.

Karen: raises the question of interaction between DSP and OWL.

we should keep track of them. Figure out what can and cannot work.

_Merging of use cases, continuing the discussion from last call_

[http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-19-08-2014](http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-19-08-2014)

_Non DDB/DM2E/Europeana cases_

**ACTION** : chairs to ask on mailing list for shepherds for other cases, especially

[/mediawiki_wiki/CSC](/mediawiki_wiki/CSC)

[/mediawiki_wiki/KIM-recommendations](/mediawiki_wiki/KIM-recommendations)

[/mediawiki_wiki/RFC-6906-Profiles](/mediawiki_wiki/RFC-6906-Profiles)

AP in OWL for OER worldmap prototype:

[/mediawiki_wiki/OER-world-map](/mediawiki_wiki/OER-world-map)

[https://github.com/hbz/oerworldmap/blob/master/oerap.ttl](https://github.com/hbz/oerworldmap/blob/master/oerap.ttl)

**ACTION** : Adrian and Thomas to solve the issue for the OER case for a demo during the next call.

(Open Educational Resources)

Adrian: use the AP for generating automatically a web form for people to enter data

We've been thinking about separation between vocabularies (schema.org) and AP

we didn't want to overide the schema.org voc

we created sub-properties of schema.org properties and used OWL to express constraints in the AP. (A better solution might be: Directly use third-party properties and define for which namespace the AP applies.)

this was the reason the validator didn't work

I've re-worked the AP with schema.org properties, and it works

Karen: why did declaring sub-properties didn't work?

Adrian: they were not used in the data

Thomas: with the reasoning we had the results we wanted to have

Using OWL2 mapping to SPIN developed by Thomas

## First deliverable

From the charter: "Report on the current state, based on use cases gathered - first draft September 2014"

Suggested scope of the deliverable:

- Collected case studies, use cases (All wiki case studies are in scope, but they won't be worked out fully in time.)

- Requirements from the database used by our application profiles

- Short database description or description of the requirements collection?

- Links to the case studies on the wiki, case studies, use cases and requirements in the database

Evelyn will start in the wiki

Draft written by Thomas and Evelyn (based on the texts from the Wiki and the database):

[/mediawiki_wiki/Deliverable\_1](/mediawiki_wiki/Deliverable_1)

Gathering use cases and requirements.

Evelyn goes through Contents:

2 Report on the current state: use cases and validation requirements

2.1 Introduction

2.2 Case studies and use cases

2.2.1 Europeana Data Model (EDM)

2.2.2 Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) MAPv3

2.2.3 Deutsche Digitale Bibliothek (German Digital Library, DDB)

2.2.4 DM2E model

2.2.5 OER World Map prototype

2.2.6 Using [RFC 6906](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906) Profiles

2.2.7 DINI AG KIM - RDF-Representation of Bibliographic Data

2.2.8 Reusing CEN EuroLMAI, DC In Academia

2.2.9 Tiny Archive

2.3 RDF validation database

2.3.1 Requirement classification

2.3.2 Dublin Core validation requirements

2.4 RDF Validator

2.5 Conclusion

_Please comment, make corrections or say if something is missing!_

Evelyn: have I missed contributors?

Antoine: send email to list would be simpler

Evelyn: URI?

Antoine: [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/UCRDeliverable](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/UCRDeliverable)

Antoine: validator can go somewhere else

Evelyn, Thomas: OK

_How to proceed_

Antoine: call it first working draft and send it around asking for feedback.

congrats to the editors&nbsp;:-)

**ACTION** : everyone to give feedback on UCR document after Evelyn send the link to the new URI

## Scope discussion: relation between the TG work and previous AP work

[http://dublincore.org/documents/profile-guidelines/](http://dublincore.org/documents/profile-guidelines/)

[http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-dsp/](http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-dsp/)

[http://dublincore.org/documents/singapore-framework/](http://dublincore.org/documents/singapore-framework/)

Karen working on DSP in relation to RDF/OWL

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/DSPanalysis](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/DSPanalysis)

Comments on here and on the page would be welcome.

Relation between DSP, OWL(2), SPIN, SPARQL, ShEx

All these languages overlap to a large degree, it's interesting to express the constraints that cannot be expressed in one language or another.

For each requirement one should be able to express the constraint in a constraint language.

## Coordination with W3C RDF Data shapes WG [running item - nothing for this week, but keep in agenda]

prospective charter: [http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter](http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter)

discussion list: [http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/](http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/)

W3C task group has been instantiated; will be meeting at W3C Technical meeting. [http://www.w3.org/2014/11/TPAC/](http://www.w3.org/2014/11/TPAC/) (?)

Eric: we'll be hosted offsite

Karen: will you be allowing observers?

Eric: WG was approved

[http://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Main\_Page](http://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Main_Page)

1. 25 members

1. we'll be going through use case and requirements

1. and then settle on technology

1. can share the requirements database for some different communities, e.g. clinical trials.

## AOB

Next call? (considering DC@Austin)

RDF Validator

