---
title: minutes20140805
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/minutes20140805.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 7 August 2014, at 16:56.  
This page has been accessed 30,068 times.

[<img alt="RDF AP TG logo" src="/mediawiki_wiki/images/RdfAP_tg.png" width="200" height="141">](/mediawiki_wiki/images/RdfAP_tg.png)

* * *

##### [Handbook](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook): [Table of Contents](/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Handbook/) 
<dl>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board.md" title="DCMI Governing Board">Governing Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/finance.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/finance">Membership &amp; Finance</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/nominations.md" title="DCMI Governing Board/nominations">Nominations &amp; Bylaws</a> 
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board.md" title="DCMI Technical Board">Technical Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/usage.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/usage">Usage</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/standards.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/standards">Standards &amp; Liaisons</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/specifications.md" title="DCMI Technical Board/specifications">Community Specifications</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board">Advisory Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/meetings.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/meetings">Conferences &amp; Meetings</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/documentation.md" title="DCMI Advisory Board/documentation">Education &amp; Outreach</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i>Management:</i> <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee.md" title="Exec Committee">Executive</a> ◘ <a href="/mediawiki_wiki/Exec_Committee/directorate.md" title="Exec Committee/directorate">Directorate</a>
</dd>
</dl>

* * *

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1"><a href="#Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Handbook: Table of Contents</span></a></li>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
          <a href="#DCMI_RDF_AP_Task_Group"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">DCMI RDF AP Task Group</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2">
              <a href="#1._Gathering_requirements_task"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">1. Gathering requirements task</span></a>
              <ul>
                <li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-3"><a href="#a._Cases_DDB.2FDM2E.2FEuropeana_.28First_presentation_by_September..29"><span class="tocnumber">2.1.1</span> <span class="toctext">a. Cases DDB/DM2E/Europeana (First presentation by September.)</span></a></li>
                <li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-4"><a href="#b._Other_use_cases"><span class="tocnumber">2.1.2</span> <span class="toctext">b. Other use cases</span></a></li>
                <li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-5"><a href="#Use_case_action_items_from_last_meeting"><span class="tocnumber">2.1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Use case action items from last meeting</span></a></li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-6"><a href="#2._Scope_discussion:_relation_between_the_TG_work_and_previous_AP_work"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">2. Scope discussion: relation between the TG work and previous AP work</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-7"><a href="#3._Tutorials_for_various_meetings.2C_especially_DC2014"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">3. Tutorials for various meetings, especially DC2014</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-8"><a href="#4._Coordination_with_W3C_RDF_Data_shapes_WG_.28running_item_-_keep_in_agenda.29"><span class="tocnumber">2.4</span> <span class="toctext">4. Coordination with W3C RDF Data shapes WG (running item - keep in agenda)</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


# DCMI RDF AP Task Group

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles)

**Meeting date: Aug 5, 2014**

Meeting link: [https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=M06NUZT11SOENX3CQ9SKJU1UG9-JV0D](https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=M06NUZT11SOENX3CQ9SKJU1UG9-JV0D)

Attendees: Karen, Antoine, Valentine, Thomas, Diane, Gordon, Kai, Corey, Stefanie, Mariana, Mark (joined late)

Regrets:

Agenda and notes: [http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-05-08-2014](http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-05-08-2014)

## 1. Gathering requirements task

(Requirements database: [http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation](http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation))

Requirements have been added to the database from use cases included in the discussion on the W3C ShEx list. Therefore there was a request to be able to filter the requirements that come from DC case studies.

These can be accessed at the links below.

- case studies (tbc): [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies/dc-case-studies](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies/dc-case-studies)
- use cases: [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=use-cases/dc-use-cases](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=use-cases/dc-use-cases)
- requirements: [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=requirements/dc-requirements](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=requirements/dc-requirements)

There is a check box that assigns the case study to the DC group. All use cases and requirements then are associated with that group and can be viewed separately.

### a. Cases DDB/DM2E/Europeana (First presentation by September.)

Stefanie is working on this now, and hopes to finish today. These are the use cases already started in the database.

Q: Should use cases be added if the requirements are the same? For example [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/248](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/248) is explicitly labeled DM2E

Antoine: use cases could be duplicated (case study-specific use cases)

Kai: use cases should be shared among case studies if they are identical - they can be linked

Karen: it would be good to know what are the common requirements

Stefanie: specific example: [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/245](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/245)

Kai&nbsp;: in this case it would be good to work on re-labeling, so that use cases can be re-used with other case studies

Stefanie: I will work with Evelyn on this.

Decision: Case studies should link to use cases already in the database. Some use cases have been given labels that are specific to a case study. Those need to be changed to be more generic so they can be associated with multiple case studies.

Valentine: I have added some use cases and maybe I have created some duplicates. I prefer to add all UCs before working on Reqs. It's hard coming up with the right names... we may need to re-visit some to make them clearer.

### b. Other use cases

Karen: I added a use case - [/mediawiki_wiki/TinyArchive](/mediawiki_wiki/TinyArchive)

I've tried adding it in the DB and failed. I'm going to contact Thomas.

It's a small archive, we're adding schema.org to the web pages. Today they have no identifiers for their "things" (authors, places, topics) but they hope to add those incrementally. Therefore they need to document the current state of their use of schema.org, and what values can be expected. As this changes, their documentation needs to reflect these changes, which means that they will have a need to indicate versions.

### Use case action items from last meeting

ACTION ITEM: to invite Kevin and/or Eric to provide a simple case study (+use cases). [DONE - no response]

Stanford: Phil Schreur ( [http://www.loc.gov/bibframe/implementation/register.html](http://www.loc.gov/bibframe/implementation/register.html)) pschreur@stanford.edu

ACTION ITEM: Ask Phil for case study (overall) + different use cases within the case study [DONE - waiting on response]

## 2. Scope discussion: relation between the TG work and previous AP work

[http://dublincore.org/documents/profile-guidelines/](http://dublincore.org/documents/profile-guidelines/)

[http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-dsp/](http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-dsp/)

[http://dublincore.org/documents/singapore-framework/](http://dublincore.org/documents/singapore-framework/)

Karen: I've started work on looking at re-writing the DSP in relation to RDF/OWL

## 3. Tutorials for various meetings, especially DC2014

- DL14 Conference London (Sept) - tutorial will include APs in general. The outline is available at [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPu5ZvFlYkm-ops892AVRQXNxNw1ZFLEdSVlMzbknQU/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPu5ZvFlYkm-ops892AVRQXNxNw1ZFLEdSVlMzbknQU/edit)
- DC2014 Austin (October), half day: Tom, Stefanie, Kai, Thomas, Karen (coordinating)
  - Thomas can give a general overview on validation (DSP, ShEx), helped by Kai and Stephanie
  - Tom and Karen can talk about DCAP
  - Stefanie - explain use cases and requirements
  - Karen: I need to send Stuart a description of what our audience should come away with.
- SWIB14 Bonn (Dec): Kai Eckert, Lieke Ploeger, Evelyn Dröge, Dominique Ritze, Antoine Isaac
  - Kai: we will decide who will go there. It should be straightforward, and based on DC
  - it will be a (long) half day. Perhaps with exercises.

## 4. Coordination with W3C RDF Data shapes WG (running item - keep in agenda)

Prospective charter for that group (under discussion): [http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter](http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter)

Discussion list: [http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/](http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/)

Thomas has added 5 case studies that originated on that list:

- TopQuadrant (real CS) [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=CS-EPIM-ReportingHub](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=CS-EPIM-ReportingHub)
- Provenance CS
- SKOS Validation [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/358](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/358)
- DDI [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/347](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/347)
- RDF data cube - aggregated data [http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/345](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/345)

Karen: coordination between our 2 groups needs to wait for the W3C charter

That group seems to be mainly focused on an actual validation language. We may be more focused on documentation and simple use cases. Our efforts could be complimentary.

