---
title: minutes20150120
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/minutes20150120.html"
---

 **This is an archived MediaWiki page.**  
This page was last modified on 1 February 2015, at 14:41.  
This page has been accessed 17,906 times.

<table id="toc" class="toc">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <div id="toctitle">
        <h2>Contents</h2>
      </div>
      <ul>
        <li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
          <a href="#DCMI_RDF_AP_Task_Group"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">DCMI RDF AP Task Group</span></a>
          <ul>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#1._Discussion_of_use_cases_and_requirements"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">1. Discussion of use cases and requirements</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Coordination_with_W3C_Shapes_group_-_role_of_DCMI_group"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Coordination with W3C Shapes group - role of DCMI group</span></a></li>
            <li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Admin_-_Next_calls"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Admin - Next calls</span></a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

# DCMI RDF AP Task Group

[/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles)

**Meeting date** : Jan 20, 2015

**Meeting link** : [https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M2QXENESBFPA2MCVRRRV81NXOU-JV0D&rnd=651463.20347](https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M2QXENESBFPA2MCVRRRV81NXOU-JV0D&rnd=651463.20347)

**Etherpad** : [http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-20-01-2015](http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-20-01-2015)

**Attendees** : Valentine, tom, Antoine, Karen, Evelyn, Stefanie

**Regrets** : Corey, Thomas, Lars

## 1. Discussion of use cases and requirements 

[http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/](http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/)

[https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements\_analysis](https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements_analysis)

process for requirement merges - see [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;704b0413.1411](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;704b0413.1411)

[See discssion on the requirement etherpad]

A new page has been started: [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/Requirements](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Requirements)

Karen will start it and add as much as possible

... and then call for others to contribute

... how to get that help best?

Antoine: call reviewers?

Karen: Tom? It would be in a week.

Tom: so the review would be me looking at it with fresh yere and see whether the definitions make sense

Karen: ok. I could ping you after I've done a section

Tom: alright

Karen: some of it have startes oddly worded. We could hget less RDFy

Action Karen: check why Requirement 1 not included in EricP's list; what is requirement E08

ONGOING: we have to see whether we include it. We can do it after work on our requirement.

## Coordination with W3C Shapes group - role of DCMI group 

charter: [/mediawiki_wiki/RDF\_Application\_Profiles/Charter](/mediawiki_wiki/RDF_Application_Profiles/Charter)

W3C draft requirements list: [https://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Requirements](https://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Requirements)

email: [https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;7d388645.1501](https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;7d388645.1501)

Karen: the group is still discussing requirements on the draft list

... their use stories (possibly use cases) document is being discussed

... I'm going to be editor for this one.

... there's been no work on reducing the number of documents

Antoine: so they've not done what we're doing now (for discussing requirements)

Karen: yes. They're also talking about implementation details at the same time.

... and they're discussing about which solution should be the standard. Stefanie: will we interlink our requirements with theirs?

Karen: I don't know. I've started, but it's not easy.

... I have started a list of our requirements that I'm unsire they tackle

... I will submit it to them

... I expect that they will cover all that we need

Karen: it would help me if someone could read it and compare with what we have

Stefanie: I can but someone else should help

Antoine: I'd be willing to do it too, but maybe after Karen and Tom have compiled the list of requirements

Karen: I'll try to have a first section done and then everyone can react.

ACTION: put Thomas' analysis of BF on wiki

## Admin - Next calls 

- 2015-02-03
- 2015-02-17 - Karen not available - at the W3C F2F
- 2015-03-03

